{"Data on the number of scientific publications and presentations": "This  data comes from the Principal Investigators Survey of 2017-2018. It  provides annual results and performance indicators for Canadian Space  Agency funded investments in Research and Development, and Science and  Technology. The goal of this survey is to evaluate and demonstrate the  impact of this funding for space research. Extracts of these results are  published in the Departmental Result Report.", "WINDII Data Archive": "The  Wind Imaging Interferometer (WINDII) was launched on NASA's Upper  Atmosphere Research Satellite on 12 September 1991 and operated until  2003. Its role in the mission was to measure vector winds in the Earth's  atmosphere from 80 to 110 km, but its measurements extended to nearly  300 km. The approach employed was to measure Doppler shifts from a suite  of visible region airglow lines emitted over this altitude range. These  included atomic oxygen O (1S) and O (1D) lines, as well as lines in the  OH Meinel (8,3) and O2 atmospheric (0,0) bands. The instrument used was  a Doppler Michelson Interferometer that measured the Doppler shift as a  phase shift of the cosinusoidal interferogram generated by single  airglow lines. An extensive validation program was conducted after  launch to confirm the accuracy of the measurements.", "THEMIS Mission (Time History of Events and Macroscale Interactions during Substorms)": "In  2007, as part of the THEMIS Mission (for \"\"Time History of Events and  Macroscale Interactions During Substorms\"\"), NASA launched a  constellation of five small satellites, all carrying identical suites of  electric, magnetic, and particle detectors to study auroras.", "NEOSSat - Astronomy Data": "The  dataset includes the astronomical images from the Near-Earth Object  Surveillance Satellite (NEOSSat). Launched in 2013, NEOSSat is the first  space satellite dedicated to detecting and tracking asteroids and  satellites. The size of a suitcase, it orbits at approximately 780  kilometres above the Earth, searching for near-Earth asteroids that are  difficult to spot using ground-based telescopes. Because of its lofty  location, it is not limited by the day-night cycle and can operate 24/7.  It circles the globe every 100 minutes and, in part due to its large  baffle, is able to scan space near the Sun in order to detect asteroids  that may someday pass close to Earth. Through NEOSSat, Canada is  participating in the international efforts of the world's space agencies  to catalogue the near-Earth population of asteroids and produce  information that can be used to target new destinations for future space  exploration missions.", "OSIRIS - Optical Spectrograph and InfraRed Imaging System": "Canada's  Optical Spectrograph and Infrared Imaging System (OSIRIS) is the  optical payload on Sweden's Odin satellite. It works in synergy with  Sweden's advanced radiometer and measures atmospheric composition.Since  2001, OSIRIS has obtained valuable information on the upper atmosphere.  It focuses its attention on altitudes from 7 to 90 km\u2014between the  highest mountains and the edge of space\u2014and measures concentrations of  ozone, aerosols and nitrogen dioxide.", "SCISAT - data on gases and particles of the ozone": "Canada's  SCISAT is studying the complex chemical processes that affect the  distribution of ozone in the upper atmosphere, especially over the  Artic. From its orbit 650 kilometres above the Earth, its instruments  use the light from sunrises and sunsets each day to identify gases and  particles. This successful mission represents a partnership involving  universities, industry, and government.", "Meteorological Station (MET) of the Phoenix Mission": "It  is important for the next exploration missions to learn more about the  Mars planet climate. It is for this reason that the Phoenix robotic  spacecraft landed on Mars in 2008 in order to search for environments  suitable for microbial life on Mars, and to research the history of  water there. The Canadian Space Agency provided for this multi-agency  program a meteorological station (MET), including an innovative  laser-based atmospheric sensor.", "Ionosphere images from Alouette satellites": "Launched  on September 29, 1962, the Alouette-I scientific satellite marked  Canada's entry into the space age and was seen by many as initiating the  most progressive space program of that era. In its first three months  of operation, Alouette-I's four scientific instruments produced some of  the most exciting data on the status of the ionosphere. Almost 55 years  later, the CSA has digitized more than 450 canisters of 35-mm film  provided by the satellite, data with a rich historical value that is  still of interest to scientists today.", "AUSTRAL2017 - Stratospheric Balloon Flight \u2013 Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Stratos Telemetry": "STRATOS,  the Canadian Space Agency's stratospheric balloon program, was created  in 2012 through a collaboration with the Centre national d'\u00e9tudes  spatiales, France's space agency. This program gives Canadian academia  and industry the opportunity to test and validate new technologies and  to perform scientific experiments at an altitude where only balloons can  be operated.", "Performance Readiness Evaluation Tool (PRET)": "In  order to improve the capability to monitor and evaluate the  neurocognitive status of astronauts aboard the International Space  Station, the Canadian Space Agency initiated the development of a novel  tool called the Performance Readiness Evaluation and Training Tool  (PRET). PRET is based on a 3D virtual reality Mars mission simulator  that offers multitask activities embedded with neurocognitive tests.  This would allow the assessment of a user's neuropsychological  performance in areas such as processing speed, memory, attention, and  response control.", "Laser-Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy (LIBS) dataset for materials for Planetary Exploration.": "The  data was obtained from 68 samples of rocks and minerals via  Laser-Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy in the 200-940 nm wavelength range.  The calibration table of known chemical content of the samples is also  provided with the data.", "Metadata of the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Library collection": "Set of metadata that describe all documents of the Larkin-Kerwin Library collection.", "CARISMA Magnetometer Network": "The  Canadian Array for Realtime Investigations of Magnetic Activity  (CARISMA), previously known as CANOPUS, is the magnetometer element of  the Geospace Observatory Canada project and is operated by the  University of Alberta.", "Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer Telescope (FUSE) Satellite Data": "The  Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer (FUSE) was a NASA space  telescope, led by Johns Hopkins University, and built in collaboration  with the Canadian and French space agencies. It made high-resolution  spectroscopic observations in the far-ultraviolet from 1999 to 2007.", "Balloon-Borne Large Aperture Submillimeter Telescope (BLAST) Data": "The  Balloon-borne Large Aperture Submillimeter Telescope (BLAST) is a 2-m  telescope that has conducted a series of astronomy observation missions.", "Advanced MOST Science Archive (AMSA)": "Launched  in 2003, the Microvariability and Oscillations of STars (MOST) is a  Canadian microsatellite designed to monitor optical variability in a few  stellar targets for up to 60 days. As the first telescope dedicated to  astroseismology, MOST measured the oscillation in light intensity of  stars in order to determine their composition as well as age. It also  measured transit of known exoplanets. The Advanced MOST Science Archive  is published in collaboration with the Canadian Astronomy Data Centre.", "Riometer Historic Datasets": "Riometers  passively monitor radio noise from extrasolar sources and have been  shown to be an effective way to monitor high-energy electron populations  in the region of space around the Earth.An historic dataset was  acquired from 1989 to 2007 through a pan-Canadian network of 11  riometers.", "MOPITT (on Terra)": "MOPITT  is a Canadian instrument aboard the Terra satellite. Since 1999, it has  contributed to the study of environmental pollution by continuously  scanning the troposphere to make long-term measurements of carbon  monoxide concentrations. Initially planned for a five-year term, this  experiment has been prolonged because the data collected is still of  high quality and the satellite is in good health. Its data are used to  assess the scope of certain pollution control initiatives and to help  understand environmental effects of other human activities such as  biomass burning.", "CloudSat": "CloudSat  is a NASA satellite that has been gathering data on clouds structure,  occurrence and volume to improve our knowledge of clouds and their  effect on climate and weather.", "Swarm": "The  three satellites of the European Swarm mission precisely measure the  magnetic fields generated from Earth's core, mantle, crust, oceans,  ionosphere and magnetosphere. By observing the complexities of Earth's  protective magnetic shield, Swarm is providing insight into many natural  processes.", "ePOP (on CASSIOPE)": "The  ePOP probe, aboard Canada's CASSIOPE satellite, observes the Earth's  ionosphere, where space meets the upper atmosphere. It collects data on  the effects of solar storms and, more specifically, their harmful impact  on radio communications, satellite navigation and other space and  ground-based technologies.", "Canada Mosaic - RADARSAT-2": "A  mosaic of Canada was developed in 2014 from 121 images captured by  Canadian satellite RADARSAT-2. The data used to create these images was  acquired from May 1 to June 1, 2013. The colour variation in the mosaic  represents the changes in soil texture, roughness and the level of soil  moisture.", "RADARSAT-1 \u2013 Mosaic of the United States": "This  mosaic of the United States comprises 190 images captured by RADARSAT-1  between March 1998 and October 1999. It includes one full map and maps  by regions (East Central, North East, North West, South Central, South  East and South West). The mosaic was produced by MacDonald, Dettwiler  and Associates Ltd. in collaboration with the Canadian Space Agency and  the Canadian Centre for Remote Sensing.", "RADARSAT-1 \u2013 Mosaic of Australia": "This  Australia mosaic comprises 165 images captured by RADARSAT-1 at a  500-metre resolution between November 15, 2000, and February 12, 2001.  The mosaic was produced by MacDonald, Dettwiler and Associates Ltd. in  collaboration with the Canadian Space Agency and the Canadian Centre for  Remote Sensing.", "RADARSAT-1 \u2013 Mosaic of Antarctica": "The  mosaic was produced by the Byrd Polar Research Center of Ohio State  University, in collaboration with the Canadian Space Agency and the  Alaska SAR Facility. The project was sponsored by NASA.", "RADARSAT-1 - Africa Mosaics": "This mosaic of Africa consists of approximately 1600 images of the continent captured between October 1998 and July 2002.", "BRITE Constellation": "The  BRITE Constellation is a fleet of five nanosatellites that study the  brightest stars in the night sky. They take highly precise measurements  of the brightness variations of a large number of stars. Most of these  stars are not just the brightest to your eye, they are among the  brightest in energy output of all the stars in our galaxy.", "Planck Telescope": "This  European Space Agency mission began in 2009 with the launch of the  Herschel Space Observatory, and ended in 2013. The Planck mission  objectives were to study the cosmic microwave background's anisotropies  and polarization, as well as the birth and evolution of the Universe,  and the forms that it might take in the future. Planck carried two  instruments: the High Frequency Instrument and the Low Frequency  Instrument.", "Herschel Space Observatory": "The  Herschel Space Observatory (HSO), specializing in observations in the  far-infrared and submillimetric spectral region, is the largest space  telescope ever launched. The HSO provided data from the time of its  launch in May 2009 until June 2013. During its active lifespan, it made  over 35,000 observations, logged more than 25,000&amp;Nbsp", "Canadian Planetary Emulation Terrain 3D Mapping Dataset": "This  dataset consists of 102 laser scans obtained using a rover at the  Canadian Space Agency's Mars Emulation Terrain. This dataset was  collected for mapping purposes.", "Alpha Particle X-Ray Spectrometer on the Curiosity Mission": "The  Alpha Particle X-Ray Spectrometer (APXS) embarked on NASA's Curiosity  rover measures the abundance of chemical elements in rocks and soils of  Mars. Roughly the size and shape of a Rubik's cube, APXS's sensor can  gather data day and night. It takes two to three hours to analyze a  sample to determine what elements it is made of, including trace  elements. A quick-look analysis can be completed in about ten minutes.  APXS, which sits on the end of the rover's robotic arm, is placed close  to a sample and bombards it with alpha particles (charged Helium nuclei)  and X-rays to study the properties of the energy emitted from the  sample in response. The APXS instrument is an updated version of the  spectrometers that were successfully used on the Mars Exploration Rover  and Mars Pathfinder missions", "RADARSAT Constellation Mission sample image products": "The RADARSAT Constellation Mission (<abbr>RCM</abbr>) is Canada's new generation of Earth observation satellites. The <abbr title=\"RADARSAT Constellation Mission\">RCM</abbr>  includes a trio of Earth observation satellites, capable of scanning  Earth day or night and in any weather conditions. The three-satellite  configuration allows for daily revisits of Canada's vast territory and  maritime approaches, as well as daily access to 90% of the world's  surface and the Arctic up to four times a day. The <abbr title=\"RADARSAT Constellation Mission\">RCM</abbr>  is designed to provide effective solutions in three main areas:  maritime surveillance; disaster management; and ecosystem monitoring."}